foreign
[Music]
oh yeah
thank you
officers
oh
yeah
no they are no they just
my favorite
I was going to run to Mitchells and I
think now I'll walk in here early just
in case
I should have gone to Mitchell
inviting this coldness
okay
I think I'll just go in
here
and then I was
looking about the policies
[Music]
I said no
I want to so I'm just gonna do this
because
oh yeah
it still says
my grandson used to say let's get this
party started
[Music]
I hate the business
I'm going to start cleaning again
[Music]
drama like we need to drop off because
that's cool
language
[Music]
I hope
everything Museum
[Music]
okay exactly because I should be able to
shoot
because I should be able to
I mean yeah
and so um
no one no one cares the services
there that's awesome
yeah
okay
we're going to minimize you okay okay
[Music]
I'm sorry
every Sunday
all right we are a little late probably
um but
are we set okay yeah
um if everybody I'd like to call this
meeting to order and it is 405 and I'll
ask people to stand for the Pledge of
Allegiance
of the United States
foreign
thank you I will need a motion for
approval of the agenda and a second
during the commotion and we approve the
agenda okay but first secondness second
at first by
um trustee Rutledge a second by trustee
Brown all those in favor say aye aye
um I will go ahead and
um
excuse me for just a second because
we'll just give
break time before we start
Brandon I'm going to bring
a nice name but you
um I'm going to go ahead and let you
sort of introduce yourself and go ahead
and
um
if you would a lot and I think that will
work because you'll be there so we can
still see you but you can also scroll
through okay you can also scroll through
your financials
very good all right so uh hopefully you
can hear me all right uh and uh um my
name is Brandon Brandon Blair and I'm a
a partner
um in the Quarry warranty dear uh your
District's audit firm
um joining us uh at least as of now on
silence just so that we don't have
um background noise interfering with it
to Brandon tregallis who's uh Associated
partner with our our firm was also you
know actively involved in the audit this
year as well he's he is a participant in
this meeting but uh We've he's muted at
this time so that
um we don't get the interference with
the with the sound
foreign
you know that's we audit governmental
entities
um throughout North Idaho
and uh We've we've been working with the
district for a number of years
um and this this is uh this is what we
do we we are Auditors obviously with an
affirm within our firm we do a lot of
other
um CPA type
services
taxes bookkeeping Etc but our team my
team specifically uh were almost
exclusively audit related so that's just
a quick little introduction to who we
are and I'll let you
um go from there
all right so I guess would you like to
um normally you sort of take the role of
running through the audit and um I don't
know before you usually run through
obviously go to the findings of the
audit if do you want to kind of flip
through as we have done in the past I
think of
um sort of describing the audit and and
then staying at the board other board
members at board members have any
particular questions and how best to
proceed
absolutely yeah all so what I'll I just
wanted to make sure that uh I wasn't
jumping in too quickly there
um so I'll I'll go ahead and from this
point I'll just kind of take the ball
and run with it uh and uh go through the
audit report here the financial report
um focusing on
um what's included in in the report and
then of course our reports that we
provide so I'll I'll go through there as
Margaret just mentioned uh we have had
some detailed conversations with board
representation and management throughout
the audit and uh
um we went through in detail the the
opportunity to go through those
financial statements uh we want the
entire board to have the opportunity to
ask some questions which we'll certainly
get to but just want to make sure we get
some of the high points
and then I'll I'll do a best to respond
to any questions you might have so with
that I'm going to kind of skip through
the the finance report first I want to
look at the uh what's the table of
contents okay and just to provide you
with a brief summary of what's included
in the finance report
uh we start with the independent
Auditors report that's the primary
report that we provide there are two
other reports at the end that we also do
but this is the the primary report uh
related
not specifically but the focuses on the
financial statement audit itself we'll
look at that briefly
um and then like I said at the end
there's a couple of compliance reports
that we that we also include and
um there's a schedule that goes with
that
and there's a lot of stuff in between
and that's all the districts
responsibility they're the district's
financial statements it starts off with
what's called this Management's
discussion and Analysis and that is an
opportunity for the the district's
management to provide a brief summary of
the financial condition and uh what kind
of took place
um kind of in some real high points and
also some comparisons to the prior year
so that you can kind of see
um what overall how I mean what the
financial condition is and uh results
were compared to the prior year because
the financial statements everywhere else
is primarily on the single year
presentation just the current fiscal
year and then the basic financial
statements
are comprised of two two different
presentations there's a district flight
that's kind of all encompassing holds
everything together
um has a presentation that's what we
call more full accrual includes all
assets current and non-current
um and all liabilities current
non-current what's the difference being
referred to as net position
and then there's these fun statements
that are are the primarily the general
fund but then you've got a lot of other
funds that are that get grouped into
this what's called non-major
governmental funds
um and then there's the footnotes to the
financial statements from 21 through 50.
there's a lot of information in those
footnotes I won't hit a lot of that to
you know but obviously if you have any
questions all on happy to address them
the required supplementary information
that is is again as it sounds required
to be included with the finance report
there's budgetary information there's
these schedules related to uh pension
plans and and other post-employment
benefits uh that's kind of what we start
with in here and then there's some
accompanying those and when I say we we
start with we assisted in preparing the
financial statements in the accompanying
footnotes and schedules but they are
managements they're the districts uh
financial statements they're they're
your information we just helped prepare
them based on information provided to us
and then as we continue on there's
what's called other supplementary
information I mentioned those uh other
governmental non-major governmental
funds and you've got several of them
it's Broken Out In detail by individual
fund for uh local or state and federal
funds
and then we get again to the end the
compliance reports this is the other
section this is what we we get to
provide as at the conclusion of our of
our audit as the results go
um and like I said there are two uh one
is dealing with internal control over
financial reporting that's primarily on
the financial statements uh and and the
how we conduct the audit
um and then the recording that goes with
that and then there's also a separate
report dealing with Federal Awards
um whenever you an entity extends more
than 750 000 in federal funds there's a
separate audit that's referred to as a
single audit that is focuses just on
federal dollars and that's what this
last report is in reference to
all right
um any questions so far
it doesn't look like it okay can you can
you see it first report the primary
report independent Auditors report just
again summarize what we did we conducted
not as you would expect it provides
here's the opinions that's a clean
opinion the financial statements are
fairly stated in all material respects
the basis for opinions which is really
we conduct the audit according to a
Professional Standards and based on the
results of that audit we issue an
opinion and the audit requires that we
we go through and identify what what we
have to understand your controls your
Control Systems control environment
document that so that we can properly
design and then perform conduct the
audit and then as a result of that
we issue another report related to
internal control but not an opinion we
don't audit internal controls we don't
necessarily even test internal controls
but what we do have to make sure that we
understand your controls in your control
environments sufficient to be able to
properly design the audit procedures to
be performed
and then we we also issue a report if we
identify any whatever referred to as
significant deficiencies or material
weaknesses in internal control and we'll
look at that as well
there is something in here just to kind
of uh take note of there's a new
standard that became effective for the
district dealing with leases
um did not have a significant impact on
your District it changed how it's
presented you have a capital lease for
um for some some equipment
um that is is reported as now it's not
presented as a capital lease because at
the end of the lease it transfers
ownership to the district it's referred
to as a financing Arrangement a finance
purchase Arrangement under the new
standards but the but the amounts and as
they've been presented previously are
essentially the same so that's but if
you do in the future enter into new
leases there are additional things to
consider when those things take place if
they take place and they're significant
okay responsibility of management I've
already stated this management has a
responsibility for the financial
statements our responsibility is to
conduct the audit importance of
Professional Standards and issue an
opinion
that this is a new format that the way
that we conduct the audit the standards
that we follow did not change in terms
of what the audit standards require us
to perform but the report has a lot of
additional information in there
um as to what what is comprised of an
audit and what things are taking place
throughout the audit and our
responsibilities again in Greater detail
but it doesn't change it did not change
how we how we conducted the audit
um and then again mentioning that
required supplementary information the
budgetary comparison schedules and then
the other supplementary information
and that's the that is again the primary
report in the a very brief overview of
what's in there
so before we jump to the other
compliance reports uh I just to hit a
couple of of high points on the
on the financial statements themselves
just so that you can kind of familiarize
yourself with how it's presented so as I
mentioned there are two there are two
types of presentations there's the
government or the district providing
financial statements which include all
assets of the district
current and non-current and all
liabilities current non-current and
there's information that's presented on
these first two statements that is not
presented on the other fund statements
which is more consistent with your
budget and the reason for that is your
budget is focused and the fund to
finance students is focused on the
current Year's activity current year
Focus current assets current liabilities
current revenues and expenditures and
and the long-term stuff is is not as
critical for the fund and budget
purposes
so that's why the two different
presentations
without going through each of the
financial statements themselves and the
footnotes are there any questions
that you have at this time
um specifically on the financial
statements and the footnotes
I think Brandon the one thing that might
be worth going over and I'm looking at
the nodes because if the notes actually
there's a lot of really critical
information I mean they
um it's always
one of those when you get a quarterly
report or whatever there's a lot of
things hidden a lot of information in
those notes the one that might be
helpful and I'm just scrolling through
the document that I have
it might be helpful
um
to discuss
um I think the one place that I always
say is I'm jumping ahead and there may
be some other notes there but I'm
thinking the notes I think it's 12 13
and 14. there's a lot of information
there regarding Percy
um
the sick leave
um pinch you know all those different
things and I just wondered if let me
find the first note
and which one but do is there a way to
sort of describe those in a little bit
easier because that's there's a lot of
information there there is a ton of
information in there um so so quick you
mentioned
um it's actually
as I mentioned
the league Finance purchase agreement
but really footnotes 13 and 14 I think
um is is the the real complex uh
information and what it's referring to
is the footnote 13 but yes but note
13 deals with with what are called other
post-employment benefits
okay and op-ed for sure hopefully I've
I've done a highlight can you see that
with my cursor yeah yes okay yeah um so
just to kind of help put that together
so what what you've got there there's
there's two different things that the
district has
um that you're actually required to
participate in related to these other
post-employment benefits one is
what's referred to as a sick leave plan
and then the other is an insurance plan
the sick leave is is when individuals or
employees are able to
accumulate sick leave and when they
retire if they have sick leave left over
they're able to sort of roll that value
into the Percy Plan and there's some
additional benefits they get from that
and all of the information that goes
with that and that sickly is is
primarily determined based on
information that comes through Percy and
state statute uh so you're the only
control you have is uh your employees
how many how many District employees you
have and uh and obviously then the pay
scales that go with that but as far as
who qualifies and participates it's it's
primarily driven by State Statute
legislation
um and what your contributions are in
fact over the last couple of years on
the sickly plan there has been sort of a
hold or freeze on any contributions so
because it's been in a positively funded
position for that plan
so there's no no required contributions
correctly that will change or has
changed as of now but as for the fiscal
year that we're looking at there were no
contributions for that then the
insurance plan is related to
um retirees once they once they retire
they're eligible to stay upon the
district's medical plan
um they have to they have to pay for the
premiums but because of that future
benefit that they have available to them
it's another post appointment benefit
that there's uh that an actuary comes in
and calculates what your estimated uh
liability is and how those those
benefits are earned over over time over
the expected service life of the
individuals the net pension liability is
described in foot number 14 and that's
the pension plan and the pension plan is
a is of course for all parts
participating in governmental entities
but the standards require that you
record a your proportionate share of the
pension liability or net pension
liability based on your contributions to
the plan compared to every other
participating entity and there's
information as to what that percentage
is and you'll see
but what's really interesting
um
because of the way that the plan is
calculated and the fact that there's
these uh assets that go with it and and
expected assets or investment results uh
there can be significant swings in the
in the amounts that are reported within
those which is why we have these
deferred inflows and up above these
deferred outflows related to those plans
where there's pretty significant swings
that can happen from year to year and
when that liability is adjusted
there's there's some process and it gets
recognized over the future and and how
all of that is calculated and done and
the assumptions that are used are
detailed in those footnotes so I
apologize for not going into each of
those footnotes I'm happy to do that but
I just I'm hoping that at a a reasonable
job of summarizing what those amounts
relate to and I guess I would clarify
because those footnotes run I mean those
are you're right it was not 12 but 13
and 14 they run from page 36.
all the way through
um
it looks like
48 so there's a lot of information there
and I guess on that one is out of those
footnotes because there is so much
information
on for number 13 for footnote 13 is
there something we should be looking at
specifically in those notes especially
related to potential risk that the
district might assume with either these
plans
um I I guess the the uh as far as the
potential risk goes
um
the district doesn't really have any
control uh you're either you're either
having employees and the state says
you're going to participate in this plan
because you're required to
um
you know the the I said I suppose the
biggest thing that you might point to as
a district would be that these these
benefits do cost money
um and that they are an obligation that
the district has has committed to and
there is an impact and when you see on
your on your
primary financial statements and your
budgets are going to be what your
contributions are in any given year
um the the risks would be that these
plans are not managed very well but for
for Idaho I guess for as far as plans go
Idaho does a very good job of managing
these pension uh or these these future
post employment and pension
um benefits they are they are about as
well run as as you can expect for for
these types of plans there are some some
entities have very uh drastic swings and
in some in some states there are
districts or governmental entities that
are paying a contribution calculation
today for benefits of employees that
retired 10 15 years ago
um and for a for a plan that was frozen
to new entrance
40 years ago so uh that's the that's the
potential impact of these plans which is
why one of the reasons the standards
require this implementation is so that
more people are aware of the impact here
but as far as a risk to the district
there's no difference in the risk today
than what the risk was
um 10 years ago it it does the the risk
is what does the Percy board look to in
terms of what what they're going to
require for conservation amounts and
that's the
but that they look at that every year
anyway
okay and I'll just open it up just to
see if any of the other board members
have any questions or we just proceed
you know as we maybe through to the next
to the section after the notes this
first set of notes
I've just been kind of slowly scrolling
through this and and not not to
um to ignore what you're what you're
saying or to cause everyone to be a
little dizzy but more to drive to the
point that you were
you are making Margaret that there is a
lot of information I just finished going
through foot metal 13 which deals with
those uh two post-employment benefits
the sick leave and the insurance and
then this is the pension footnote
almost all of which is driven by Percy
itself the the only thing that really
gets calculated on your end is based on
your contributions and as long as you're
you uh are enrolling in individuals
um correctly and and properly
calculating their contribution amounts
based on their eligible wages then then
you're going to be just fine okay
um any questions from anyone or just
keep proceeding and then we can come
back if they're questions afterwards
okay so required supplementary
supplementary information probably is
the next section you might want to just
if there's anything touch on there which
is page 51 for us
so the the first the first thing to look
at in the required supplementary
information is the budgetary comparison
schedules or schedule because you just
have to worry about the general fund at
least for for your District
um
and and what that what this does is it
checks it just takes here's your
revenues uh by Major category here's
your expenditures
um by function and and then you compare
what your original budget is your final
budget
um and then what the actual results for
what you actually had uh that are from
the previous financial statements there
were there were some adjustments to the
uh to the budget amendments which is
certainly appropriate there's nothing
wrong with doing budget amendments and
difference between the expected uh or
sorry the uh the final budgeted amounts
and what actually happened
um and don't get hung up on little
things like this where you'll see uh gee
this line has looks like you exceeded
the budget you didn't in fact what what
the state statutes require is they they
focus on each primary function so
instruction Support Services
and then non-instruction programs and
then this other Capital assets and Debt
Service category itself
so in total this is the general funds
budget summarized Again
original to final and final two actual
and then the other
RSI required supplementary information
is dealing with those plans that we
talked about this is the insurance plan
identifies what changes took place
during the year and then calculation and
what that liability is as a component of
total covered employee payroll which is
you know about 5.3 percent the liability
is as a component or a ratio of total
payroll for the district related to the
insurance plan so just quickly on that
one and this may be a Steffy question
but I noticed at least even from
uh well 2018 down to 2022 it looks like
the state may have assisted in there
because there was quite the drop in the
liability from the beginning of the year
to free from 2018 to 2022 do you
um and quite a bit a total reliability
percentage that it dropped quite a bit
from 13.49 in 2018 to 5.27 is that a
question that we should be asking inside
internally here why there was is that I
guess I'm just wondering why there was a
change do you know offhand
um I I apologize I'm hoping that I that
I heard you correctly I mean yes there
this is consistent that we're seeing
across
um
across the uh districts that in terms of
this change the I think the big the big
thing was some of the changes in some of
the accounting and how things were done
and accounted for
um you'll you'll actually see that that
some of these old years previous years
didn't have that information because the
the standards didn't require that and as
as they
um they implemented these new standards
then you'll see that they've started to
improve some of the things as a result
of uh
and just just some of the changes in how
things are accounted for primarily
that's the biggest difference
okay so that explains the difference
okay because I was just it was quite a
bit of a percentage drop when you were
look when I was looking at it
those are dealing with sick leave in
this because it's a
it's funded with Percy and there are
investments this is a funded plan that
they simply is a funded plan and it has
historically been in a it shows it's a
negative number but that's actually uh
an asset is what it is it's negative
because typically these post-employment
benefits would be a liability or an
obligation and that's actually sitting
every day in an asset situation where
there's more assets than there are
liabilities
under the sick leave plan and this is
this is a a proportionate share
allocation in fact that's what this
number is right here you have a
0.4187 of the total uh participating
entities throughout the state so pretty
small percentage but but uh within that
plan that's your proportion of share of
it which is similar to what we kind of
get to on the net pension liability
information and when I say similar the
approach is similar and the reason why
your number is actually smaller on than
attention to my ability than it was in
the sick leave is the sick leave it is
primarily willing to school districts
whereas the the net pension uh the
pension is available to all types of of
governmental entities so once you add in
a make it a bigger pie your your piece
becomes smaller so that's why this
number here is smaller than what we just
look at even though this is also under
Percy and what you'll what you'll see
um what's interesting and you don't see
it now but because this
when you do your your audit your fiscal
year is June 30 2022. well past June 30
is the same year that person uses but
because their information is not
available soon enough the standards
allowing you to go back the information
from up to a year ago so the net pension
liability for Percy is is valued or
calculated based on the prior years
Percy results
uh you wouldn't know this necessarily
but now that they have completed their
June 30 2022
um they have gone from a funded status
of just over 100 which is the best that
they've been
um to a funded status of about 83 84
percent
um but that is because of the
significant uh decline in markets that
that has occurred over the last year for
various reasons and that happens across
the board
so that's a risk that you can't control
the numbers will will change
significantly for next year but as you
can see that liability kind of jumps
around as it is
um even though your proportionate share
is doesn't jump around and in fact
actually has continued to decline as
more entities uh become participants in
the plan
sorry to sorry to go through all that
but uh
hopefully hopefully I didn't confuse
the issue too much
no I don't think so I don't know if I'll
stop again and see if the board have any
board has any questions okay keep keep
going just making sure thanks all right
so
um I think that as I mentioned that gets
us through the required supplement
information this is what's called other
supplementary information or it breaks
down your your funds that are root into
smaller
uh
they say smaller
um
fewer funds but more more conclusive so
for example your general fund that's
presented in the finance the basic
financial statements is actually
comprised of several different funds
that you track all for general purposes
but you track them for various reasons
that makes that are appropriate and then
the other major or other non-major
governmental funds
um
have things like the Child Nutrition
fund there's a Student Activities fund
and then there's some State and and
federal funds these are broken out
separately because while they're this is
local and not state or or federal and
the Child Nutrition while
um especially in the current year is
primarily funded with federal dollars
because there's also especially
historically some local funds that go in
there is captured kind of separately as
well so but then the state and federal
funds are broken out in detail
um a quick question on that receivable
up on the prior page really quickly on
that receivable of 1.3 million plus
um that that's at the end of June 30th
was was that I think I've noticed that
non-major Federal is considered Esser
money was considered non-major Federal
is that what that was that pending
receivables for Esser money or what do
you know what that was right now we'll
we'll look and you'll
this is the breakdown of all those
receivables okay this this has to do
with essentially a lot of the funds the
uh during during a period especially the
latter half of the year the district had
not been submitting for reimbursement
for eligible expenditures which took
place subsequent to year end you you're
entitled to those monies but you hadn't
requested or received them
you're in and because you're entitled to
to those funds because you were awarded
the the dollars and had spent the
dollars in accordance with the the grant
you're entitled to receive them so you
record a receivable
for those expenditures that were
incurred and
um that's why and there's a such a large
number but yes Esser is a big component
of it uh there's there's a almost half a
million related to Esther three there's
another 180 000 for us or two s or one
has a smaller amount of fifty seven
thousand but then there's also you'll
see there's some significant amounts for
title one and uh um tied six are the
other big ones okay no so it's page 61.
um that receivable on 61 goes down to
what is spelled out on 63. looks like
okay got it I should have known that
yes this this information here rolls
into
the total that number within this column
right here okay and 62 page 62 is is
what rolls into this call here sorry
this call
okay
and and that is the balance sheet uh
assets and liabilities and then the you
get the same information for revenues
and expenditures
okay so I guess keep moving I think
we're getting unless anybody has any
questions anyone has questions here
maybe go to the compliance reports move
on to those yeah that really takes us
through all of the financial information
um then we get to the compliance reports
themselves and as I mentioned there are
two that we provide one dealing with
internal control over financial
reporting and on compliance as it
relates to the financial statements
um as I mentioned previously we don't
audit internal controls we don't issue
any opinions
um
but if we identify any deficiencies that
have a certain magnitude we're required
to report on that
and those those are referred to as
material weakness
which is defined here material weakness
is a deficiency or a combination of
deficiencies
in internal control such that there is a
reasonable possibility that a material
misstatement of the entities financial
statements will not be prevented or
detected and corrected on a timely basis
so what that's saying is you know as far
as the difference between detected and
corrected there are different types of
controls you have preventative controls
which are designed to prevent uh
misstatements from occurring in the
first place and then there are detective
controls where okay look something
something took place that we didn't
intend but look we've we've identified
it we've corrected it and now it's now
it's fairly stated as long as those
things are done on their bases then then
there's not a what would typically be a
control efficiency
so again preventative controls are ideal
but uh much more
difficult to implement and and certainly
are more expensive to have a high high
level preventative controls and so
detective controls are usually what
happens such as reviews and oversight
and reconciliations those are usually
done after the fact and are the primary
control uh objectives that you would
utilize
and we did identify survey for all that
but we as uh the the the end of the
story is we did identify a material
weakness in internal control and find as
described in finding number three
this is a required format in terms of
the finding presentation uh government
auditing standards requires this is the
fiscal year that's under audit and is it
isn't finding
um one two three Etc what they've got
three digits that they require
um I would hate to be the entity that
uses three digits
um for for reported findings but uh
nevertheless that's what that's what is
required for for that there are two
significant deficiencies and this is a
real vague definition
um it's less severe than a material
weakness yet important enough to Merit
attention by those charged with
governance it's a it's a big definition
but the standards are quite clear as to
what is what should be considered a
significant deficiency or as a strong
indicator of a significant efficiency or
possibly a material maintenance so
there's a lot of information that we use
as Auditors to to go through and gee
this is something that came up if this
happens then yeah it probably is a
significant decision or if this
situation exists and those are described
in detail in those findings one or two
um if there are compliance or potential
compliance related matters that could
have a material could result in a
material misstatement or have a material
Financial impact on the entity then
we're also required to report on that we
did have what we refer to it as a
compliance lining that while it did not
have a
have a financial impact it could have so
that's why it goes into this report on
compliance into the matters it's
actually related to the federal Awards
but because those Federal rewards are
part of your financial statements then
it it that's why that gets included in
this one as well on that particular
finding and then on
um we'll skip well I don't want to say
skip this is a
I like this this is what's referred to
as your schedule of expenditures or
federal Awards commonly referred to as a
sifa
as again as we described previously
whenever you expend more than 750 000
you have to have what's referred to as a
single audit conducted and we did that
on as well
um and we'll look at that report these
are all the federal Awards and the
amount of expenditures related to each
of those Awards you'll see that some of
them have multiple Awards within the
same Grant and that's uh um just because
you've got different years and years
your uh your Awards carry over more than
just one year in some instances not all
but in some instances so that's why
those and then there are some that are
so closely related that they're
considered to be what they call a
cluster the Child Nutrition virtually
all of the information that goes all of
the federal dollars that go into the
Child Nutrition fund are part of a
single cluster and that's why they kind
of get grouped together over here
and then we get into the the next page
is these non-routine
federal dollars and I say non-routine
the other ones on the previous page are
things that you get here and you're out
and you have for for a number of years
the covid-19 related Awards grants are
you know uh
are a certainly a I'd say a windfall but
there's there's a lot of followers that
go into here
um that aren't necessarily routine some
of those dollars were also on the
previous page but if you see covid-19 in
there
that is likely to not be there uh for
more than the next couple of years
all right so the other report again is
dealing with the single out of the
federal Awards
um and that's what this report is and
you know the the single audit is is
looking at two things one
um the actual compliance were you in
compliance uh in accordance with the the
programs that were that were subject to
being tested we don't test all of the
programs
um in fact we'll we only tested one
program but that had a lot of dollars
the Esser which really has three
programs in it but it's really
considered one for federal purposes
um and no issues with compliance but
then we also have a report on on
controls over compliance so
um
that's the other
when I when I skip forward a little more
the report on internal control over
compliance we mentioned that there were
two findings two deficiencies in
internal control over compliance that
could have resulted in a material
misstatements or material non-compliance
um sorry to let me correct that material
on compliance they didn't but they could
have
foreign
there are the actual findings themselves
so but I want to pause for a minute and
see do you have any
any questions
looks like
no so go ahead and proceed thank you
okay
so the
I guess you have had a chance we we have
gone in detail with the findings with
management and or representation off the
floorboard I'm happy to Summarize each
of these if you would like or if you
just want me to address specific ones or
if you've got questions that you want me
to focus on I want to I want to leave
that open and be respectful of your time
um I think it'd probably be best if you
could summarize quickly and go through
there's only a few paid you know it
would be probably best for so the people
who are sitting here also besides the
board members understand sure so the the
finding uh
one and and I this has not always been
this presentation and it's not required
but I think it is helpful
um so this finding one is dealing with
the financial statements and was I and
was considered to be a significant
deficiency this is a similar in fact uh
virtually identical to
um findings that we've had in Prior
years and it deals with the fact that
you're a small District okay you've got
a small staff size and specifically the
finance department
um that deals with the with the
financial information is is a a small
apartment
which of course is is what you would
expect given it aside the size of your
District but because of that and because
there are a limited number of
individuals uh you have what we refer to
as a lack of segregation of Duties
um being Implement Implement and have
controls
throughout the entire process is
I don't want to say impossible but it
it's pretty close it's very challenging
um and in many instances I would say
might be impossible given not just the
size of the organization
um but also the resources available and
and it's it's appropriate for you to
have to implement procedures to the best
of your ability but then to also
recognize that you you are aren't going
to necessarily
um
put a bunch of money into
into uh having better segregation of the
duties
if it doesn't necessarily provide any
significant benefit but that's that's
what that finding is primarily about and
there are some things that have been
done over the years and continue to be
done
to to help offsets uh those those
challenges that you have
the next finding
um number two is is dealing with the the
accounting for new funds
um and as we talked about you had some
some new funds
um dealing with you mentioned Esther
there were three Awards and there were
other funds that came in through uh acts
uh or decisions made from the governor's
office
um and as a result of those and then
some additional standards that took
place in the prior year
there's new funds
um that that were required to be
separated each time you have specific
restricted resources
uh more often than not that's that's
required to be established into a
separate fund which is really just a set
of separate
um
based on travel a self-balancing set of
funds or accounts sorry to track
amounts related to specific resources
and they're available funding
and that's what this and there were some
instances where there were some some
amounts that did not get captured
correctly between those funds ultimately
the way that they're presented they're
correct but they weren't initially and
that's what this thing relates to
in in the and what's important is when
when is the Auditors that identify those
um it is almost automatically a
considered to be a finding because we
can't be part of your internal controls
um we can certainly assist in some areas
when there are questions but we can't be
part of your system of controls
the next
finding
um O3 is is what we refer to as a
material weakness and a lot of this is
dealing with a significant turnover that
took place within the district's
business finance department
and what might be summarized as a lack
of sufficient training and oversight in
that transition and there were a lot of
um
there was a lot of information from
previous individuals that were in that
in those positions that did not get
transferred adequately
to the individuals that are in those
positions now and as a result there were
a number of of uh adjustments and
Corrections that needed to be made in
order for the financial statements to be
fairly stated and because of the the
amount
and the quantity that were involved it
was
almost automatically met the
requirements for it to be considered a
material weakness
so each of these findings and I'm sorry
I should have mentioned this but each of
these go through and describe what the
condition was what the standards
required that's that's the criteria
what's the effect of the condition
um is what the next little section is
within each of the findings and then
what what caused that what's the result
or why did it happen and then we provide
a recommendation which in some instances
is very simple and straightforward and
sometimes it's a little more detailed
and then management has the opportunity
to provide a response as to
their understanding of the finding and
what they what they expect to do to
resolve the findings in the in the
future going forward
so those are dealing with the findings
on the financial statements and then the
next two findings are related to the
federal dollars even though the reality
is they kind of go hand in hand they
kind of go together with the exception
of the fifth one
um the fifth finding so this here
dealing with compliance is you know it
kind of